  libflock - library to deal with flock of birds
  Copyright (C) 2002 SCRIME, université Bordeaux 1

  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
  the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
  (at your option) any later version.

  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
  GNU General Public License for more details.

  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
  along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
  Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The libflock library aims at the management of peripherals called
"flock of birds".  These devices are made by Ascension Technology
Corporation.  For short, a flock of birds captures spatial coordinates
of electromagnetic receivers (the birds) with regard to one or more
transmitters.

During development of the package, the author used two such devices,
with one transmitter and two receivers.  The master device was
connected to a computer thru one of its serial ports.  The computer
was running GNU/Linux.  Other configurations were not considered,
although some provision has been made in the code.

The library is still in alpha stage.  However, some parts are already
usable.  The flockUtils directory contains example programs that
access the library.  The "flockOutput" program outputs the bird's
records as text.  The "flockNoise" program detects the noise level in
measurements of the bird's positions.  The "flockOSC" program sends
flock events to a remote host by using UDP datagrams that comply to
CNMAT's OpenSound Control protocol.

Comments are welcome.

Author: Anthony Beurivé <beurive@labri.fr>


This work was carried out in the context of the SCRIME project (Studio
de Création et de Recherche en Informatique et Musique
Électroacoustique, www.scrime.u-bordeaux.fr) which is funded by the
DMDTS of the French Culture Ministry, the Aquitaine Regional Council,
the General Council of the Gironde Department and IDDAC of the Gironde
Department.  SCRIME is the result of a cooperation convention between
the Conservatoire National de Région of Bordeaux, ENSEIRB (school of
electronic and computer science engineers) and the university of
sciences of Bordeaux.  It is composed of electroacoustic music
composers and scientific researchers.  It is managed by the LaBRI
(laboratory of computer science of Bordeaux).  Its main missions are
research and creation, diffusion and pedagogy, thus extending its
influence.
